the following content is provided under a Creative Commons license
your support will help MIT OpenCourseWare continue to offer
high-quality educational resources for free
to make a donation or view additional materials from hundreds of them IT
courses
visit MIT OpenCourseWare at 0 CW
that MIT that EDU ha the
the
the in
the new the in the last lecture we discussed discrete-time processing of
continuous-time signals
and as you know the basis for that arises essentially out at the sampling
there now in that context and also in its own right
another important sampling issue is
the sampling love discrete-time signals in other words the sampling a sequence
one comic context in which this arises for example
is if we've converted from a continuous-time signal
to a sequence and we then
carry out some additional filtering then there's the possibility
day we can re sable that sequence and as we'll see as we go through the
discussion
save something in the way of storage or whatever
so discrete-time sampling
as a indicated has important application
in a context referred to here namely re sampling
after discrete-time filtering and
closely related to that as well indicate in this lecture
is the concept love using discrete time sampling
for what's referred to as sampling rate
conversion and also closely
associated with both those ideas is a
set of ideas that I'll bring up in today's lecture referred to as
decimation and interpolation love discrete-time signals are sequences
now the basic process for
discrete-time sampling is the same as it is for continuous-time sampling
namely we can analyze it and set it up
on the basis love multiplying or modulating
a discrete-time signal by an impulse train
the impulse train essentially or pulse train pulling out
sequence values at the times that we want to sample
so the basic block diagram for the sampling process
is to modulator multiply
the sequence that we want to sample by
an impulse train and here
near Paul strain has imposed a space by
integer multiples of capital N this then becomes the sampling period
and the result is that modulation is then
the sample sequence X appear vent so
if we just look at what a sequence in a sample version of that sequence might
look like
well we have here is an original sequence exit Van
and then we have the
sampling imposed strain or sampling sequence
and it's the modulation or product if these two
that gives us the sample sequence X appear van
and so as you can see multiplying this by this
essentially pulls out love the original sequence
sample values at the times that this post rain is on
and of course here I've drawn as for the case where capital and
the sampling period is equal to 3
now the
analysis love discrete-time sampling is
very similar to the analysis of continuous-time sampling
and let's just quickly look through the steps that are involved where
modulating are multiplying in the time domain and what that corresponds to
in the frequency domain is a convolution and
so be spectrum
love the sample sequence
is the periodic convolution love the spectrum
love the sampling sequence and
the spectrum love the sequence that were sampling
and since the sampling sequences in Nepal strain
as we know the 48 transform over Nepal strain
is itself an impulse train and so this is the Fourier transform
love the sampling sequence
and now finally the four EA transform
love the resulting sample sequence being the convolution
love this with the Fourier transform the sequence that were sampling
gives us then spectrum which consists of a some
love replicated versions of the Fourier transform above the sequence that were
sampling
in other words what we're doing very much as we did in continuous-time
is through the sampling process when we look at it in the frequency domain
taking the spectrum all the sequester were sampling
and shifting it and then adding it in
shifting it by editor multiples of the sampling frequency
in particular looking back at this equation
what we recognize is that this term
k times to pile over capital and is in fact
integer multiple love the sampling frequency
and the same thing is true here this
is K times Omega so badass
where Omega so badass the sampling frequency
is to pie divided by capital and
alright so now let's look at what this means
pictorially are graphically in the frequency domain
and as you can imagine since the analysis
and algebra is similar to what happens in continuous-time
we would expect the pictures to more or less be identical to
what we've seen previously for continuous-time and indeed that's the
case
so here we have the
spectrum love the signal that were sampling
this is for EA transform with an assumed highest frequency of Omega Savannah M
highest frequency over to fire a range or over Ranger
higher at their and now the spectrum of the
sampling signal is
what I show below which is an impulse train
with impulses occurring at multiples integer multiples of the sampling
frequency
and fan finally the convolution
up these two is simply this: one
replicated at the locations if these impulses
and so that's finally what I show below
and here are chosen one I've made one particular choice
for the sampling period this in particular corresponds to
a sampling period which is
capitol lawn equal to
three and so the sampling frequency
Omega so badass is to pie
divided by three
right now when we look at this what we recognize
is dead we have basically the same issue here
as we had in continuous time in the sense that
when these individual replications of the 48 transform
when a fit when the sampling frequency is chosen high enough so that they don't
overlap
than we see the potential for being able to get one of them back
on the other hand when they do overlap then what will have
is a daily as saying in particular discrete-time aliasing
much as we had continuous time a leasing in the continuous-time case
well notice in this picture dead
what we have is we've chosen this pictures so that
Omega sieve ass minus Omega 7 a.m.
is greater than Omega Savannah am work with alertly so that Omega Sebastian is
greater than
to Omega to Omega
so am and so with Omega serve as greater than 20 may get to them that corresponds
to this picture
whereas if that condition is violated
than in fact the picture that we would have
is a picture that looks like this and in this picture
the individual replications of the four EA transform
of the original signal overlap and we can no longer
recover the for EA transform the original signal
and this just as it was in continuous-time
is referred to as alias
now let's look more closely at the situation in which there is no aliasing
and so in that case
what we have is a Fourier transform
for the sampled
signal which is as i indicated here
and the Fourier transform for the original signal
as i indicated at the top and
the question now is how do we recover this one from this one
well the way that we do that just as we did in a continuous-time case
is by low-pass filtering in particular
processing in the time domain or in the frequency domain
this where and idea low-pass filter
has the effect of extracting that part
the spectrum dead in fact we identify
with the original signal that we
began so
what we see it again is that the process is very much the same as long as there's
no aliasing
we can recover the original signal by
ideal low-pass filtering so
the overall system is
just to reiterate a system which
consists love modulating
the original sequence with
appall strainer and Paul strain
and then that is going to be processed
with a low-pass filter
the spectrum love the original signal X a van
is what I show here the spectrum of the sampled signal where I'm drawing the
picture on the assumption that the sampling period is 3
is now what's indicated where these are replicated
where the original spectrum is replicated
this is now processed through a filter
which for exact reconstruction
is an ideal low-pass filter
and so we would multiply this spectrum by this one
and the result after doing that will generate
a reconstructed spectrum which in fact is identical
to the original so the time domain
picture is the same I'm sorry the frequency domain pictures the same
and what we would expect and is that the time to me
picture would be the same well lets in fact look at the time domain
and in the time domain what we have
is an analysis more less identical to what we had in continuous-time
we've course have the same system
and in the time domain we r multiplying
by an impulse train consequently
the sample sequence is
and impose train whose values are
samples affects a van at integer multiples of capital and
for the reconstruction this is
now process through idea low-pass filter
and that implements the convolution in the time domain
and so the reconstructed signal is the convolution
of the sample sequence and
the filter impulse response and
expressed another way namely writing at the convolution is
some we have this expression and so it says then
that the reconstruction is carried out
by replacing the impulses here
these impulses by versions of the
filter impulse response
well if the filter is an ideal 0 pass filter
then that corresponds in the time domain to assign an ex
over sin x kinda function and that is the interpolation
in between the samples to do the reconstruction
also as is discussed some white in the text we can
consider other kinds of interpolation for example
discrete-time zero-order hold or discreet I first-order whole just as we
had in continuous-time
and the issues and analysis for the discrete-time zero-order hold the
first-order hold
are very similar to what they were in continuous-time the zero-order hold
just simply holding the value until the next sampling instant
and the first-order hold carrying out linear interpolation
in between the samples
now in this sampling process
if we look again at the way forms involved
or sequences involved the process consisted
love taking a sequence
and extracting from it
individual bad news and
in between those values we have sequenced values equal to 0
so what we're doing in this case
is retaining
the same number sequence values and simply setting
some number of them equal to 0
well let's say for example that we want to carry out
sampling and what we're talking about is sequence and let's say the sequence
stored in a computer memory
as you can imagine the notion love sampling it
and actually replacing some with the values by zero
is somewhat inefficient namely it doesn't make sense to think of storing
the memory a lot of zeros
when in fact those zeros that we can always put back in
we know exactly with the values are and if we know what the sampling
rate was in discrete-time then we would know
when and how to put the zeros back in
so actually in discrete-time sampling
what we've talked about so far is really only one
part for one step in the process basically the other
step is to take those zeros just throw them away because
we can put them in any time we want to and really only retained for example
in our computer memory or less than sequence values or whatever
only retain the non-zero values
so that process and the resulting sequence that we end up with
is associated with a concept called estimation
what I mean by destination is very simple
what we're doing is instead of working with
this sequence we're going to work with this sequence
namely well toss out zeros
in between here and collapse the sequence
down only to the sequence values
that are associated with the original X event
now in talking about a decimated sequence
we could of course do that directly from misstep down to hear
although again in the analysis it will be somewhat
more convenient to carry that out by
thinking at least analytically interns with two step process
one being a sampling process then the other being
the destination but basically this is
decimated version %uh that now
for the grammatical purists out there
the word estimation of course means taking every 10 won the implication is
not dead
were always sampling with a period of 10 the idea decimating
is to pick out every and sample and end up with a collapsed sequence
right now let's now look at a little bit in the analysis
and understand what the consequences in the frequency domain
in particular what we want to develop is
how the Fourier transform the decimated sequence
is related to the Fourier transform
of the original sequence or the sample sequence
so let's look at this in the frequency domain
and so what we have is a
decimated sequence which consists
love pulling out every capital and bad you affect the van
and of course that's in the same as we can either decimate x7
or we can decimate the sample sick
now in going through this analysis
all kinda go through it quickly because again
there's the issue with some slight mental gymnastics and if
you're anything like I am it's usually best to kinda try to absorb at
by yourself quietly rather than having somebody throw it at you
let let me say though that that the steps that are following here are
slightly different
and the steps that I use in the tax is slightly different wave
I'll going through the analysis I guess you could say for one thing that
if we go through it twice and it comes out the same well of course it has to be
right
well anyway a here we have
then the relationship between the decimated sequence
the original sequence and the
sample sequence and we know of course that
the Fourier transform love the sample sequence
is just simply this nation and now
the kinda the idea in the analysis is
that we can collapse this summation
by recognizing bat this
term is only non-zero
at every and value and so if we do that
essentially making a substitution variables with an equal to small and
times capital and
we can turn this into a summation on am
and that's what I've done here and
we've just simply use the fact that we can collapse the some
because the fact is dead that all but every and values equal to 0
so this then is the Fourier transform all the sample
signal and now if we look at the Fourier transform of the
decimated signal that for EA transform of course is this summation
on the decimated sequence
well what we want to look at is a correspondence between this equation and
the one above it
so we want to compare this equation to this one
and recognizing that this decimated sequences just simply
related to the sample sequence this way
these two become equal under
a substitution variables in particular notice
that if we replace in
this equation Omega by
Omega times capital and and these two equations become equal
so the consequences that then what it all boils down to and says
is that the relationship between the
decimated the Fourier transform the decimated sequence
and the Fourier transform the sample sequence is simply
a frequency scaling corresponding
to dividing the frequency axis by capital and
so thats essentially what happens that's really all
that's involved in the destination process and now
again let's look at that pictorially and see what it means
so what we want to look at now that we've looked in the time domain
in this particular you graph we
now wanna look in the frequency-domain
and in the frequency domain we have
again the
Fourier transform of the original sequence
and we have the Fourier transform
or the sample sequence
and now the 48 transform of the
decimated sequence is simply this
spectrum with a linear frequency scaling
and in particular it's simply car sponsor multiplying this frequency axis
by capital and
and notice noticed that this frequency now
to pry or capital and that frequency
ends up getting rescaled
to a frequency love to pie
so in fact now in the rescaling
its at this point in the decimation
gets rescaled to this point
and correspondingly of course the sole spectrum
broadens out now we can also look at that
in the context of the original spectrum and you can see that the relationship
between the original spectrum and the spectrum the decimated signal
corresponds to simply linearly scaling
yes but it's important also
to keep in mind dead that analysis
that particular relationship assumes that we've avoided aliasing
the relationship between the specter the decimated signal
and the spectra the sample signal is true whether or not we have a leasing
but being able to clearly associated with
just simply scaling love this spectrum
the original signal assumes that the spectrum
the original signal shape the shape of it is preserved
when we generate the sample sick
okay well when my eight discrete-time sampling and for that matter decimation
the use well i indicated one context in which it might be useful
at the beginning at this lecture and let me now focusing on that
a little more specifically
in particular suppose that we have
going through a process
in which the a continuous-time signal has been converted to a discrete-time
signal
and we then carry out some additional discrete-time
filtering so we have a situation where we've gone through a continuous to
discrete-time conversion
and after that conversion we carry out some discrete-time
filtering and so
and in particular and going through this part of the process
we choose the sampling rate for
going from the continuous-time signal to the sequence
so that we don't violate the sampling there
well let's suppose then that this is the spectrum
love the continuous time signal
below it we have the spectrum love
the output of the continuous and discrete-time conversion
and I've chosen the sampling frequency
to be just high end of so that I avoid aliasing
okay well
that then is the the lower sampling frequency I can pick
but now if we go through some additional ok pass filtering
then let's see what happens if I now
low-pass filter the sequence XFN then
in effect on multiplying the sequence
spectrum by this filter
and so the result of that the product though the filter frequency response
and the Fourier transform exit then would have a shape
somewhat like I indicate below
now notice that in this spectrum
although in this the input to the filter this entire band was filled up
in the output the filter there is a band
that is in fact up zero a that has zero energy and
so what I can consider doing is
taking the output sequence from the filter
and in fact we see a planet in other words
sampling it which would be more less associated with a different sampling
rate
in the for the continuous-time signals involved
so I could now go through a process
which is commonly referred to as down sampling that is
lowering the sampling rate when we do that of course what's going to happen
is that in fact this spectral energy will now
fill out more love the band and
for example if I if this was the third then
in fact if I down sampled by a factor of three then
I would fill up the entire band with this energy but since I've done some
additional 0 pass filtering as i indicate here
there's no problem with aliasing if
I had let's say down sample by a factor of three and I'm now taking that signal
and can bring it back to a continuous-time signal
then course the way I can't do that is by simply running
my output clock for the discrete to continuous-time converter
I can run my app but clock at a third the rate
love the input clock and that in effect takes care the bookkeeping for me
okay so here we have now
the notion love sampling a sequence
and very closely tied in with that the notion of decimating a sequence
and related to both of those the notion love
down sampling that is changing the sampling
rate so that if we were tying this in with continuous-time signals
we've essentially changed our clock grade
and we might also want to and it's important to
considered the opposite of that so
now a question is what's an opposite what's the opposite destination suppose
that we had a sequence
we decimated thinking about it as a two-step process
that would correspond to first multiplying by an impulse train where
there are bunches zeros
in the air and then choosing throwing away the zeros in keeping only the
values that
are 90 because the zeros we can always recreate
well in fact the inverse process is very specifically a process
love recreating the zeros and then
doing that the sampling so in
the opposite operation
what we would do is undue
the decimation step and
that would consist of converting the decimated sequence
back to an impulse train
and then processing that imposed strain
by ideal low-pass filter
to do the interpolation or reconstruction
filling in the values which in this imposed strain
are equal to 0 so
we now have the two steps we take the decimated sequence
we expanded out putting in 000's
and then we the sample that by processing it
through a low-pass filter so just
have looking at sequences again
what we have is an original
sequence the secret sex if an and
then the sample sequence is simply a sequence
which alternates in this particular case those sequence values 0
here what we're seeing is that the
sampling rate is that that the sampling period is 2
and so every other value here is equal to 0
the decimated sequence then is this sequence
collapsed as a show in the sequence above
and so it's in effect I'm compressing
the sample sequence or the original sequence
so that we throw out the sequence value Z
which were equal to 0 in the sample sequence
now in recovering the original sequence from the decimated sequence
we can think up a two-step process namely
we spread this out
alternating with zeros and again keeping in mind that this is drawn for the case
where capitalists to
and then finally we interpolate between
the non-zero values here by going through
a low-pass filter to reconstruct the
original sequence and that's what we show
finally on the bottom curve so
that's what we would see in the time domain let's
look at what we would see in the frequency domain
in the frequency domain we have to begin with
the sequence on the bottom or the spectrum on the bottom
which would correspond to the original spectrum
then through the sampling process that is periodically replicated
again this is drawn on the assumption that the
sampling frequency is pie or the sampling period is equal to 2
and so this is now replicated and
then in going from this to the
spectrum love the decimated sequence
we would rescale the frequency axis
so that the frequency hi now gets rescaled
in the spectrum for the decimated sequence
to a frequency which is to pie and so this now is the spectrum
love the decimated sequence if we now
want to re convert to the original
sequence we would first interspersed in the time domain with zeros
corresponding to compressing in the frequency domain
that this would then be low-pass filtered
and the low-pass filtering would consist
love throwing away this replication accounting for
a factor which is the factor capital and and
extracting the portion of the spectrum which is associated
with the spectrum love
the original signal which we began with so
once again you can we have decimation and interpolation
and the decimation can be thought I love
as a time compression corresponds to
frequency expansion and and the interpolation
process is then just the reverse
now there are lot to situations in which decimation and interpolation
and discrete-time sampling are useful and
one context that I just want to quickly draw your attention to
is the use the decimation and interpolation in
what is commonly referred to as sampling rate conversion
what the basic issue in sampling rate conversion is is that
in some situations in a very common one is
digital audio continuous-time signals sample
and those sample values are stored or whatever
and kinda the notion is that that perhaps when that is played back
its playback through a different system and a different system has
a different assumed sampling frequency your sampling period
so that's kind of the issue in the idea
we have but say a continuous-time signal
which we've converted to a sequence through a sampling process
using innocent sampling period if t1
and the sequence values made in for example
be put into digital storage in the case
have a digital audio system it may for example go on to a digital record
in and it might be the output of this that we want
to recreate or we might in fact
follow that with some additional processing
whatever that additional processing is an all kinda put a
question mark in there because we don't know exactly what that might be
and then in any case the result is that
is going to be converted back to
a continuous-time signal but
it might be converted through a system
that has a different assumed
sampling period and so
a very common issue and it comes up as i indicated particularly in digital audio
a very common issue is to be able to convert
from wanna soon sampling period
t1r sampling frequency to
another soon sampling period now
how would we do that well in fact we do that by using
the ideas of decimation and interpolation
in particular if we had for example
the situation where we wanted to convert from
sampling period t+1 to sampling period
which was twice as long as they're at then
essentially we got we're going to take the sequence
and process it in a way
that would in effect correspond to assuming that we had sample
at half the original frequency well how do we do that the way we do it
is we take the sequence we have we just throw away every other bad
so in that case we would then for this sampling rate conversion
down sample an decime or
actually we might not go through this step formally we might just simply
destiny
now we might have an alternative situation
where in fact the new sampling period sampling purity at put is
half the sampling period the input corresponding
to soon sampling frequency which is twice as high
and in that case then that we would go through a process of interpolation and
in particular we were
up sample and interpolate by a factor of two to one
so in one case were simply throwing away every other value in the other case what
we're going to do is take our sequence
putting zeros put it through a low-pass filter to interpolate
now like would be simple if everything happen in simple integer amounts like
that
more common situation is that we may have
and assumed output sampling period
which is three heads above the input sampling period
and now the question is what are we going to do to convert from this
sampling period
to this sampling period well
in fact the answer to that is to use a combination
all down sampling and up sampling or up sampling and down sampling
covertly interpolation decimation
and for this particular case in fact what we would do
is to first take the data
up sample by a factor of two
and then down sample the result of that
by a factor of three and what that would give us
is a sampling rate conversion overall
love three hands or sampling period conversion three here's
and more generally what you could think of is how you might do this
if in general the relationship between the
input and output sampling periods with some rational number:
P over Q and so in fact in many
systems and hardware systems related to digital audio
very often the sampling rate conversion most typically the same thing rate
conversion is done
through apostle process up sampling or interpolating
and then down sampling by some other now
right now what we've seen we've talked about in
in a set of lectures is
the concepts love sampling a signal
and what we've seen is that the signal can be represented by samples under
certain conditions
and the sampling that we've been talking about is sampling
in the time domain we've done that for continuous-time
we've done it for discrete-time
now we know that their is some type a duality
both continuous-time and discrete-time some type a duality
between the time-domain and frequency-domain and so is you can
imagine
we can also talk about sampling
in the frequency domain and expected
more or less the kinda properties and analysis
will be similar to those related to sampling in the time domain
well i wanna talk just briefly about that
and leave the more detailed discussion
to the text and video course manual
but let me indicate for example one context in which
frequency-domain sampling is important suppose that
you have signal and what you'd like to
measure is it's for a a transformer spectra
well course if you want to measure it are calculated
you can never do that exactly and every single frequency there too many
frequencies namely an infinite number of them
and so in fact all that you can really calculator measure
are is the 48 transform data set
love sample frequency so essentially
if you are going to look at a spectrum
continuous-time and discrete-time you can only really look at samples
and a reasonable question to ask Dan is
when does a set of samples in fact
tell you everything that there is to know about
the Fourier transform thats that
in the answer to that is very closely related to the concept
a frequency-domain sample
well frequency-domain sampling just to kinda introduce
the topic car spines
and can be analyzed interns love
doing modulation in the frequency domain
very much like the modulation that we carried out in the time domain for
time-domain sampling
and so we would multiply the Fourier transform
love the signal was for
spectrum is to be sampled by
an impulse train in frequency and so
shown below is what might be a representative
spectrum for the input signal
and the spectrum then for the
signal associated with the frequency-domain sampling
consists love multiplying the frequency-domain
by this impulse train or correspondingly
the for EA transform love
the resulting signal is an impulse train
in frequency with an envelope
which is the original spectrum that we were
sampling well this of course is what we would do
in the frequency domain its modulation by Nepal strain
what does this mean in the time domain
well let's see multiplication in the time domain is convolution in the
frequency domain
convolution the frequency domain is multiplication
I'm sorry multiplication the frequency domain and is
convolution the time to me and in fact the process in the time domain is a
convolution process
namely the time domain signal is
replicated and
time an integer amounts love a particular time associated with the
spacing in frequency
under which we doing the frequency-domain sampling
so in fact if we look at this
in the time domain
the resulting picture corresponds to
an original signal whose spectrum or Fourier transform we've sampled
and a consequence if the sampling is dead
The Associated time domain signal
is just like the original signal but periodically replicated in time now not
frequency but in time
at integer multiples up to par I divided by
the spectral sampling interval Omega 0
and so this then is the time function associated with
the sample frequency function now
that's not surprising because what we've done is generated
a and impose train and frequency with a certain on below
we know that the important post Raina frequencies the Fourier transform
love a periodic time function and so in fact we have a periodic time function
we also know that the envelope all those impulses we
we know this from way back with when we talked about for you transforms
the envelope in fact is the Fourier transform one period
and so all of this of course fits together as it should in a consistent
way
now given dead we have
is periodic time function whose Fourier transform is
the samples in the frequency domain how do we get back
the original time function well
with time-domain sampling what we did
was to multiplying the frequency-domain
by agape or window to extract that part of the spectrum
what we do here is exactly the same thing
namely multiply in the time domain by
a time window which extracts just one period
his periodic signal which with then give us back
the original signal that we started with
now also let's keep in mind going back
to this spectrum and the related sorry this time function in the relationship
between them
that again there is the potential if this time function is too long
in relation to 2pi divided by Omega 0
there's the potential for these two overlap and so
what this means is that in fact what we can end up with
if the sample spacing a frequency is not small enough
well we can end up with isn't overlap in the replication
in the time domain and what that corresponds to an what's called
is in fact time a lease so
we can apply merely saying with frequency-domain sampling just as we can
have
frequency alias saying with time to meet Sam
finally let me just indicate very quickly that
although we're not going through this in any detail
the same basic idea applies in discrete-time
namely if we have a discrete-time signal
and if the discrete-time signal
is a finite length if we sample
its forty-eight transform the
the type function associated with those samples
is a periodic replication
and we can now extract from
this periodic signal the original signal
by multiplying by an appropriate time window
the product if that giving us the reconstructed time
function as I indicate below
so we've now seen a little bit love the notion of frequency-domain sampling as
well as
time-domain sampling and let me stress that although
I haven't gone into this and a lot of detail its
important it's used very often its
naturally important to understand it but in fact
there is so much to ality between the time-domain and frequency-domain
that a thorough understanding of time-domain sampling just naturally
leads to
a thorough understanding a frequency-domain sample
all right now we talk a lot about sampling
and this now concludes our discussion sampling
I stress many times in the lectures associated with this
dead sampling is a very important topic in the context of our whole discussion
in part because the poor for such an important bridge between
continuous-time and discrete-time ideas and your picture now she can to be a
global one
that sees how continuous-time and discrete-time fit together
not just analytically but also practically
beginning in the next lecture what I will introduce
is the a-plus transform
and beyond that busy transform and what those will correspond to
are generalizations are the Fourier transform
so we now want to turn our attention back to some analytical tools
in particular developing some generalizations
love the Fourier transform in both continuous-time and discrete-time
and what we'll see is those that those generalizations
providers with considerably enhanced flexibility
in dealing with and analyzing both signals and linear time-invariant
systems
thank you